#Node

<section>

Node is a wide project which aim to improve the user experience on personal and media devices.

The user experience is currently scattered on many interfaces and devices.

For the moment, Node gather many of my reflections and solution to re-unify the user experience.

The idea is to split the user interface from the OS.
The OS is meant to make the device or computer run properly, while the user interface is meant to make the user feel comfortable on the device.

Until now, the number of devices wasn't so much a problem, most of people had a computer or two, a smartphone, and maybe a tablet. But the number of those devices will increase a lot and so do the interfaces.

I want to combine the power of shell with the easiness of graphical interfaces.

I will try to share these thoughts the best I can.

</section>
<section>
  
## Data

### Data are everywhere

Data are the reason for our usage of computers. It's why it should also be the center of our usage of computers.

Currently, most of our documents are stored either in a hierarchical filesystem, either inside applications.

The solution should be to make data omnipresent.
In the core of every devices, a layer should preserve this illusion, and synchronize in real-time every bit of our documents.

For example you could be working on a school presentation with two of your friend, and each time one make a modification, the two other got updated.
Without being grounded by the google docs interface.

### Mental model

The mental model we have of our informations and documents is very different from the file system model.

To better fit our mental model, avoid duplicates, and help the organization, it should be possible to link document to each other, and arrange them by project or category, instead of arrange them by folder.

The idea is to make flow of data to fit the best our mental model.
For example, your personal information could be set up as your name, mail and phone number, and you want it to be in your mail signature, and every header of the document you write.
You should just be able to link every of your personal informations to create this signature, and header. Then, if change your phone number, everywhere it was used, will be change from now on.

Seriously, this example suck, but I bet you got the idea.

</section>
<section>

## The user interface

*This section is still under construction*

The data layer should help a lot every kind of user interface.
The idea is to have with one device, the control of multiple device.

For this, applications should be split into multiple part easier to start.
These part could be of two types :
* Data viewer
* Actions

This should allow any devices of a personal network to control all the other devices.

</section>